# VC AuthN Demo Applications

This is a demo application that uses vc-authn-oidc as Identity Provider to access a web resource directly, without requiring the use of third-party Access and Identity Management solutions.

## Running the Demo

### Pre-Requisites

This demo requires you to have a mobile wallet installed on your mobile phone. Visit this [page](https://github.com/bcgov/identity-kit-poc/blob/master/docs/GettingApp.md) for guidance on getting your own mobile wallet on iOS or Android.

Once you have the mobile app, you must obtain a `Verified Email` credential from this [Email Verification Service](https://email-verification.vonx.io). Instructions to do that are on the site.

You will also need to have Docker installed and running. Want to run this a&mdash;no Docker needed?  See [these instructions](Running-In-Play-With-Docker.md) about running this in your browser using Play with Docker.

:information_source: If you have publicly accessible endpoints for your agent and controller, you can skip starting ngrok and provide your endpoints when starting the components prefixing the `manage` command with the `NGROK_AGENT_URL` and `NGROK_CONTROLLER_URL` environment variables.

*Example:* ```NGROK_AGENT_URL=${NGROK_AGENT_URL} NGROK_CONTROLLER_URL=${NGROK_CONTROLLER_URL} ./manage start```

### Running the Apps

In addition to the above pre-requirements, you will need three bash shell instances open at the following locations:

1. [vc-authn-oidc/docker](../docker)
2. [demo/docker](./docker)
3. [demo/scripts](./scripts)

Run `./manage build` in shells number `1` and `2` to assemble the images required to run the demo services.

When the builds are completed, run [start-ngrok.sh](./scripts/start-ngrok.sh) in shell number `3`. This will run an instance of `ngrok` used to allow your mobile agent to communicate with the services running on localhost.

Now we can start the services:

- In shell number `1` run ```./manage start-demo```

Once the services are running, we will need to configure vc-authn-oidc so that it will request the `Verified Email` credential. To do this, execute the following command in another shell (you can use, as an example, shell number `2`):

```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5001/api/vc-configs" -H "accept: application/json" -H "X-Api-Key: controller-api-key" -H "Content-Type: application/json-patch+json" -d "{\"id\": \"verified-email\",\"subject_identifier\": \"email\", \"configuration\": { \"name\": \"verified-email\", \"version\": \"1.0\", \"requested_attributes\": [ { \"name\": \"email\", \"restrictions\": [ { \"schema_name\": \"verified-email\", \"issuer_did\": \"MTYqmTBoLT7KLP5RNfgK3b\" } ] } ], \"requested_predicates\": [] }}"
```

Additionally, we need to add the valid redirect URI for the test client to the vc-authn-oidc-controller database: a new entry should be created in the `ClientRedirectUris` table. To acquire the credentials to connect to to the database you can refer to the environment variables set in the `controller-db` section of the main [manage](../docker/manage) script, however the default parameters for the demo clients have been pre-configured for convenience.

- In shell number `2` run ```./manage start```

### Try the Demos!
#### Django
Once the applications have started, navigate your web browser to http://localhost:8080 and try clicking the link to provide a `Verified Email` credential: you will be redirected to a page displaying a QR code generated by `vc-authn-oidc`. If you have previously obtained the `Verified Email` credential, you should be able to scan the code with your mobile wallet app, present the required proof and be able to access the protected page in the web application.  

#### Angular
To test the second demo application, navigate your web browser to http://localhost:4200 and try clicking the button `Authenticate`. You will be redirected to to the `Keycloak` log in page (using OIDC code flow auth).  
On the right side, click the log in with `Verified Credential Access` button, you will be redirected to a page displaying a QR code generated by `vc-authn-oidc`. If you have previously obtained the `Verified Email` credential, you should be able to scan the code with your mobile wallet app, present the required proof and after redirect back to web application, be authenticated in the web application. You can see your email, roles, id token, access token and user data. The access token will be every time automatically/silent refreshed before it expired.
